ok I think we're on air welcome to the
weekly inspiration for success with
peter del Mare as Mark I said to me I
lost my first course in January 2015 and
I've got three courses that are
published now in area during the course
of the interview my profile get a
discount on my courses this is my third
interview that I'm doing for the yummy
weekly inspiration I think you all for
joining me I palletizing again for being
a few minutes late been kind of hectic
travel here getting from San Francisco
to Berkeley I live in Colorado actually
and we're out here on vacation and I
knew it but here we are we've made it
and I'd like to welcome to the weekly
inspiration for success
Peters attack Explorer with a background
in electrical engineering and
information technology he earned a PhD
in information systems mostly reading on
philosophy of knowledge which is more
fun than it sounds
for over 15 years as a university
lecturer teaching a variety of
information technology subjects and he
has also worked as an independent
developer and consultant building web
and smartphone applications for small to
medium-sized enterprises in the last
couple of years has returned to his
childhood passion featuring with
electronics he has created five courses
on the topics of Arduino and the
Raspberry Pi element and his latest
printed circuit board design he
publishes his courses so welcome to the
weekly is Peter once you tell us a
little bit about your background is
university lecturer writer ok good place
to start
so close to twenty years so I started in
electrical engineering there was heavy
at the green and I decided to just five
years is not enough then I decided each
day after that in a way got stuck into
the system by the time I was done with
that it was it was too late to do
anything else have been a university and
academic approach and then using my
skills in the industry so that much how
it all happened to me and it was it was
this way that I over the issue develop
my skills as an instructor and a lecture
and the teacher was dealing with photo
much your students didn't show Mom 18
2010 so so yeah that the total started
ok and what types of subjects were you
teaching at the University
technologies after I came to Australia I
got into the soil show my undergraduate
days which they do hardware switch into
software so I've been teaching in
emission technology and information
systems subject to the kind of subject
to manage you want to become a web
developer network and things like that
computer engineer even sometimes but
somehow and that probably is because I
was in the chest employees such a long
time I also moved into management and
innovation subjects so far few years
actually teaching innovation and
technology management in one of the
major universities here
one that was actually a subject that I
just so wheres I was helping students
are possible client problems in the
industry actually not so much into
should but everyday lives in middle
annoying problems in then correct I
stand correct based solution to your
problem it was fun and so you said that
you were teaching technologies subjects
and so you know as I'm sure people are
familiar technology can change very
rapidly oh yeah and so how did things go
for you in your classes trying to keep
up with teaching your students to use
technology subjects most challenging as
people might think universities unknown
universal shouldn't say all of them but
majority negotiation i get very
comfortable teaching the same thing
10 years 15 years until somebody largest
at the technology with pitching is not
available anymore she was can download
it to come by cd4 occur in the book
anymore so it's time to get our cautious
so it wasn't very challenging in bed was
a major problem after you take the same
thing to reform our times he kept secret
so that's that's when I started looking
elsewhere
actually yield courses that I thought
were arraigned event today and it's five
starts capping it is possible
yeah and how are things like how did you
feel things worked up here students
you're trying to teach technology in you
know in the University Senate yeah look
ahead a mix of students many students
did not remind course they were nervous
system
get a degree and then get a job later so
they just do whatever we are still
doesn't sound very nice but yeah that's
how our days but I had students that are
you there were actually getting bored
and unchallenged and they were talking
about how these debates that you are
asking us to use and have no choice i
can download it and handed the
commission to find the line is revision3
and you're asking us to do vision 1.2
understand but you know we've got five
campuses and everybody has to do the
same thing and unfortunately besides
that this Richmond VA just just bear
with us get through these can be free
but then you miss from my other writings
outside the university is to publish
blokes and had it all
channel four get I mean and they knew
that are worse into cutting edge then
like a delicious think about 2008 2009
even before that some seven into
smartphone application development so is
bill because she's so awesome I was
interviewing Rao's when been reinforced
in version 1.5 so much that they would
come to me to consult and not for
assignments and exams for things that
were more close to the real interests in
the real things that they want to be
doing so that again gave me the
incentive to look a little bit deeper
into this and see whether I can do more
of this for more of my time instead of
just break